README.md, before:

# Arduino Home Assistant integration 🏠

[![](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/dawidchyrzynski/arduino-home-assistant?label=Version)](https://github.com/dawidchyrzynski/arduino-home-assistant/releases)
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Browse_Documentation-40BC13)](https://dawidchyrzynski.github.io/arduino-home-assistant/)
[![](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Sponsor&message=%E2%9D%A4&logo=GitHub&color=%23fe8e86)](https://github.com/sponsors/dawidchyrzynski)

ArduinoHA allows to integrate an Arduino/ESP based device with Home Assistant using MQTT.
The library is designed to use as low resources (RAM/flash) as possible.
Initially, it was optimized to work on Arduino Uno with Ethernet Shield,
but I successfully use it on ESP8266/ESP8255 boards in my projects.

## Features

* Two-way communication (state reporting and command execution)
* MQTT discovery (device is added to the Home Assistant panel automatically)
* MQTT Last Will and Testament
* Support for custom MQTT messages (publishing and subscribing)
* Auto reconnect with MQTT broker
* Reporting availability (online/offline states) of a device
* Doxygen documentation for all classes
* Covered by unit tests (AUnit + EpoxyDuino + AUniter)

## Supported HA types

| Home Assistant type | Supported |
| ------------------- | :--------: |
| Alarm control panel |     ❌     |
| Binary sensor       |     ✅     |
| Button              |     ✅     |
| Camera              |     ✅     |
| Cover               |     ✅     |
| Device tracker      |     ✅     |
| Device trigger      |     ✅     |
| Event               |     ❌     |
| Fan                 |     ✅     |
| Humidifier          |     ❌     |
| Image               |     ❌     |
| HVAC                |     ✅     |
| Lawn mower          |     ❌     |
| Light               |     ✅     |
| Lock                |     ✅     |
| Number              |     ✅     |
| Scene               |     ✅     |
| Select              |     ✅     |
| Sensor              |     ✅     |
| Siren               |     ❌     |
| Switch              |     ✅     |
| Update              |     ❌     |
| Tag scanner         |     ✅     |
| Text                |     ❌     |
| Vacuum              |     ❌     |
| Valve               |     ❌     |
| Water heater        |     ❌     |

## Examples

|Example|Description                  |
|-------|-----------------------------|
|[Binary sensor](examples/binary-sensor/binary-sensor.ino)|Using the binary sensor as a door contact sensor.|
|[Button](examples/button/button.ino)|Adding simple buttons to the Home Assistant panel.|
|[Camera](examples/esp32-cam/esp32-cam.ino)|Publishing the preview from the ESP32-CAM module.|
|[Cover](examples/cover/cover.ino)|Controlling a window cover (open / close / stop).|
|[Device trigger](examples/multi-state-button/multi-state-button.ino)|Implementation of a simple wall switch that reports press and hold states.|
|[Fan](examples/fan/fan.ino)|Controlling a simple fan (state + speed).|
|[HVAC](examples/hvac/hvac.ino)|HVAC controller with multiple modes, power control and target temperature.|
|[Lock](examples/lock/lock.ino)|A simple door lock that's controlled by the Home Assistant.|
|[Light](examples/light/light.ino)|A simple light that allows changing brightness, color temperature and RGB color.|
|[Number](examples/number/number.ino)|Adding an interactive numeric slider in the Home Assistant panel.|
|[Scene](examples/scene/scene.ino)|Adding a custom scene in the Home Assistant panel. |
|[Select](examples/select/select.ino)|A dropdown selector that's displayed in the Home Assistant panel.|
|[Sensor](examples/sensor/sensor.ino)|A simple sensor that reports a state in a string representation (open / opening / close).|
|[Analog sensor](examples/sensor-analog/sensor-analog.ino)|Reporting the analog pin's voltage to the Home Assistant.|
|[Integer sensor](examples/sensor-integer/sensor-integer.ino)|Reporting the device's uptime to the Home Assistant.|
|[Switch](examples/led-switch/led-switch.ino)|The LED that's controlled by the Home Assistant.|
|[Multi-switch](examples/multi-switch/multi-switch.ino)|Multiple switches controlled by the Home Assistant.|
|[Tag scanner](examples/tag-scanner/tag-scanner.ino)|Scanning RFID tags using the MFRC522 module.|
|[Availability](examples/availability/availability.ino)|Reporting entities' availability (online / offline) to the Home Assistant.|
|[Advanced availability](examples/advanced-availability/advanced-availability.ino)|Advanced availability reporting with MQTT LWT (Last Will and Testament).|
|[MQTT advanced](examples/mqtt-advanced/mqtt-advanced.ino)|Subscribing to custom topics and publishing custom messages.|
|[MQTT with credentials](examples/mqtt-with-credentials/mqtt-with-credentials.ino)|Establishing connection with a MQTT broker using the credentials. |
|[NodeMCU (ESP8266)](examples/nodemcu/nodemcu.ino)|Basic example for ESP8266 devices.|
|[Arduino Nano 33 IoT](examples/nano33iot/nano33iot.ino)|Basic example for Arduino Nano 33 IoT (SAMD family).|
|[mDNS discovery](examples/mdns/mdns.ino)|Make your ESP8266 discoverable via the mDNS.|

## Compatible hardware

The library uses the Arduino Ethernet Client API for interacting with the network hardware.
It should work fine as long as the `Client` class is available.

Here is the list of devices on which the library was tested:

* Arduino Uno
* Arduino Mega
* Arduino Nano
* Arduino Pro Mini
* Arduino Nano 33 IoT
* Arduino Due
* NodeMCU
* Controllino Mega (Pure)
* Controllino Maxi (Pure)
* ESP-01
* ESP32-CAM
* Sonoff Dual R2
* Sonoff Dual R3
* Sonoff Basic
* Sonoff Mini
* Tuya Wi-Fi switch module
* Tuya Wi-Fi curtain module

Please note that it's not the complete list of supported devices.
You may try to use the library on any device that uses Arduino core.

Commit message:

Update README.md with forking reasons and roadmap

README.md, after:

# Arduino Home Assistant integration 🏠

[![](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/dawidchyrzynski/arduino-home-assistant?label=Version)](https://github.com/dawidchyrzynski/arduino-home-assistant/releases)
[![](https://img.shields.io/badge/Browse_Documentation-40BC13)](https://dawidchyrzynski.github.io/arduino-home-assistant/)
[![](https://img.shields.io/static/v1?label=Sponsor&message=%E2%9D%A4&logo=GitHub&color=%23fe8e86)](https://github.com/sponsors/dawidchyrzynski)

Reasons for this Fork:

* Develop a HAText Component, and a corresponding HACharArr data type, analogous to the existing HANumber/HANumeric.
* Add a Serial Mode. where MQTT messages are not sent via Ethernet/, but via Serial/USB.

The second feature reduces resource usage considerably, by offloading the Network/MQTT complexity to the USB-Host/Serial-Peer. This enables adding a lot more functionality to the Arduino device before running out of space/RAM.

The offloading peer just needs to run a thin wrapper around e.g. socat/mosquitto_{p,s}ub.

I have a mostly working prototype of both features, that I'm in the process of cleaning up for upload.

ArduinoHA allows to integrate an Arduino/ESP based device with Home Assistant using MQTT.
The library is designed to use as low resources (RAM/flash) as possible.
Initially, it was optimized to work on Arduino Uno with Ethernet Shield,
but I successfully use it on ESP8266/ESP8255 boards in my projects.

## Features

* Two-way communication (state reporting and command execution)
* MQTT discovery (device is added to the Home Assistant panel automatically)
* MQTT Last Will and Testament
* Support for custom MQTT messages (publishing and subscribing)
* Auto reconnect with MQTT broker
* Reporting availability (online/offline states) of a device
* Doxygen documentation for all classes
* Covered by unit tests (AUnit + EpoxyDuino + AUniter)

## Supported HA types

| Home Assistant type | Supported |
| ------------------- | :--------: |
| Alarm control panel |     ❌     |
| Binary sensor       |     ✅     |
| Button              |     ✅     |
| Camera              |     ✅     |
| Cover               |     ✅     |
| Device tracker      |     ✅     |
| Device trigger      |     ✅     |
| Event               |     ❌     |
| Fan                 |     ✅     |
| Humidifier          |     ❌     |
| Image               |     ❌     |
| HVAC                |     ✅     |
| Lawn mower          |     ❌     |
| Light               |     ✅     |
| Lock                |     ✅     |
| Number              |     ✅     |
| Scene               |     ✅     |
| Select              |     ✅     |
| Sensor              |     ✅     |
| Siren               |     ❌     |
| Switch              |     ✅     |
| Update              |     ❌     |
| Tag scanner         |     ✅     |
| Text                |     ❌     |
| Vacuum              |     ❌     |
| Valve               |     ❌     |
| Water heater        |     ❌     |

## Examples

|Example|Description                  |
|-------|-----------------------------|
|[Binary sensor](examples/binary-sensor/binary-sensor.ino)|Using the binary sensor as a door contact sensor.|
|[Button](examples/button/button.ino)|Adding simple buttons to the Home Assistant panel.|
|[Camera](examples/esp32-cam/esp32-cam.ino)|Publishing the preview from the ESP32-CAM module.|
|[Cover](examples/cover/cover.ino)|Controlling a window cover (open / close / stop).|
|[Device trigger](examples/multi-state-button/multi-state-button.ino)|Implementation of a simple wall switch that reports press and hold states.|
|[Fan](examples/fan/fan.ino)|Controlling a simple fan (state + speed).|
|[HVAC](examples/hvac/hvac.ino)|HVAC controller with multiple modes, power control and target temperature.|
|[Lock](examples/lock/lock.ino)|A simple door lock that's controlled by the Home Assistant.|
|[Light](examples/light/light.ino)|A simple light that allows changing brightness, color temperature and RGB color.|
|[Number](examples/number/number.ino)|Adding an interactive numeric slider in the Home Assistant panel.|
|[Scene](examples/scene/scene.ino)|Adding a custom scene in the Home Assistant panel. |
|[Select](examples/select/select.ino)|A dropdown selector that's displayed in the Home Assistant panel.|
|[Sensor](examples/sensor/sensor.ino)|A simple sensor that reports a state in a string representation (open / opening / close).|
|[Analog sensor](examples/sensor-analog/sensor-analog.ino)|Reporting the analog pin's voltage to the Home Assistant.|
|[Integer sensor](examples/sensor-integer/sensor-integer.ino)|Reporting the device's uptime to the Home Assistant.|
|[Switch](examples/led-switch/led-switch.ino)|The LED that's controlled by the Home Assistant.|
|[Multi-switch](examples/multi-switch/multi-switch.ino)|Multiple switches controlled by the Home Assistant.|
|[Tag scanner](examples/tag-scanner/tag-scanner.ino)|Scanning RFID tags using the MFRC522 module.|
|[Availability](examples/availability/availability.ino)|Reporting entities' availability (online / offline) to the Home Assistant.|
|[Advanced availability](examples/advanced-availability/advanced-availability.ino)|Advanced availability reporting with MQTT LWT (Last Will and Testament).|
|[MQTT advanced](examples/mqtt-advanced/mqtt-advanced.ino)|Subscribing to custom topics and publishing custom messages.|
|[MQTT with credentials](examples/mqtt-with-credentials/mqtt-with-credentials.ino)|Establishing connection with a MQTT broker using the credentials. |
|[NodeMCU (ESP8266)](examples/nodemcu/nodemcu.ino)|Basic example for ESP8266 devices.|
|[Arduino Nano 33 IoT](examples/nano33iot/nano33iot.ino)|Basic example for Arduino Nano 33 IoT (SAMD family).|
|[mDNS discovery](examples/mdns/mdns.ino)|Make your ESP8266 discoverable via the mDNS.|

## Compatible hardware

The library uses the Arduino Ethernet Client API for interacting with the network hardware.
It should work fine as long as the `Client` class is available.

Here is the list of devices on which the library was tested:

* Arduino Uno
* Arduino Mega
* Arduino Nano
* Arduino Pro Mini
* Arduino Nano 33 IoT
* Arduino Due
* NodeMCU
* Controllino Mega (Pure)
* Controllino Maxi (Pure)
* ESP-01
* ESP32-CAM
* Sonoff Dual R2
* Sonoff Dual R3
* Sonoff Basic
* Sonoff Mini
* Tuya Wi-Fi switch module
* Tuya Wi-Fi curtain module

Please note that it's not the complete list of supported devices.
You may try to use the library on any device that uses Arduino core.
